# Souls Cast in the Kiln

Then here we are, sitting in the car with Lila as she finishes her drive back to the Adamson house for the first time in over six months. To say we sit amidst frustration is selling it short: it feels like surrender to be coming back after the sudden break she made in the winter; it feels like failure to lose her job and prospects so shortly after graduation. Yet there’s anticipation in this air. She has missed her brother and, yes, even her parents. All these feelings Lila is drowning, or tuning, or hammering out with a hurlant rhapsody of guitar riffs and dark crashes.
This is a familiar drive, but Lila tries to distract herself with the thoughts it piques. Over her undergrad she made it at least a dozen times. There are vibrant green leaves on the trees. The roads are rain-slick and weather-beaten. New homes stand neighbor to ruins left to crumble because it’s too expensive to dispose of the old buildings properly. Time and vegetation will slowly drag evidence of this neglect beneath the soil. This is the state of her world, living somewhere where entropy’s effects are ignored on behalf of the profit of a few individuals. Still, she comes to the end of that thought, and then to her destination in that old familiar neighborhood, that strip of driveway leading to this crowded garage with a door left open despite the homeowners being away.
Lila parks in the garage. She sits to let the song she’s listening to finish, gathering herself. Hers is the only car at the house, which means that David must be home alone for the moment. He’ll wait for her to come inside when she’s ready. Or he’ll come barreling out and hug her before she’s even out of the car. It can be hard to tell, sometimes, which impulse he follows. But lately? Lately, it will be the former. Once the excuse of the song is out of reach, she turns her car off and emerges.
She’s halfway out of the car when she hears the racket like someone’s ransacking her parents’ kitchen. She snaps out her phone and dials David. We know why he doesn’t answer. His voicemail says, “You’ve reached David. Leave your message when the lady says.”
Beep.
“Is everything okay in there?” she asks. Then, “Call me back.”
Phone back into her pocket. She doesn’t call her parents, or the police, or Mark. There’s Dad’s golf clubs. She grabs the one with the biggest head.  She grabs some pruning shears, too, which she tucks into her back pocket.
Lila steps into and past the mud room. The noise grows both louder and harder to parse. The crashes of glass jars and thunks of boxes accompany two more extended sounds: one is like starch-thickened water circling a drain; the other is a stretching like a rubber glove over a hand that is too small for it.
In the kitchen Lila finds a storm of odds and ends from the pantry and fridge whorling around an amber shape. The faucet is running in the sink, but the water is falling into the storm. A carton of eggs skitters out of the open fridge. Three eggs come loose and crack open, the contents graying and burning and stretching into the surface of a face.
In nature flesh takes time and privacy to grow into its shape. Living things incorporate the resources they gather behind the veil of their shells, seeking by instinct to maintain a balance of form and function that extends their existence towards its natural terminus. Divorced from true reliance on a body and empowered by a heightened of mastery over reality, the being Lila witnesses here claims anything and everything in the Adamson kitchen as its own and puts it to use without regard for privacy or nature’s course.
Lila yelps.
Thrast has felt her coming, not just with the web of Paradigmatic control over reality he has cast but also he foresees it in advance, half a vision and half reading the Associations of this household and the trajectory coming. Her return to this place was inevitable. Her reaction to his presence is also inevitable.
He would prefer to address her person to person, or the closest he can approximate, because such an exchange must as a matter of course be more comfortable for this young woman than what she will likely force upon him. So he shifts some priorities in the formation of his new body. A pitch black pupil forms in egg white. An apple peels itself and approximates a mouth. Behind literal apple-red lips, a slurry of material gurgles into the shape of a wind pipe.
Lila does not wait for the creature to be capable of speech. She swings with the club first, which Thrast simply snatches with a pseudopod of would-be flesh. Releasing the club, she scoops up a fire extinguisher. She pulls the pin, aims, and fires. A pale frosty cloud wraps around the shape of a man.
A voice rings, tinny at first but then loud enough to shake the room. “To what end this violence?”
Lila closes in and hacks at the amber stone with the pruning shears. The gem glints in the afternoon light, unscratched. The shears are wrested from her hand after the third blow. They’re wrenched apart and used to construct joints.
Thrast asks, his voice a rumble in the kitchen tiles, “Is this the first thought in your head? To destroy what you do not understand?” Dust swirls and a force presses Lila back. It holds her at arms’ length. A powdery white cloud with an apple mouth and misaligned eyes regards her. “You should not fear me, woman.”
Lila steps back to break the feeling of pressure against her shoulders. She says, “You’re trespassing! Get out of my parents’ house--“
“Trespassing?” Thrast interrupts. “I did not come here of my own will.” The humanoid shape is still locked in a gesture of contemplation. He is without anxiety.
“You’re pillaging a kitchen to make a body. St--”
“A body is unnecessary, but serves its purposes.”
“Why this house?”
“You would need to ask the ones who banished me.”
“You know what a door is. There’s plenty of material outside that’s not someone’s home. Take it outside! No wonder you were banished.”
A cocked head. An apple smile. “But you do, don’t you?”
“What?”
“Wonder.” There is a creaking, subtle at first but growing in volume.
Lila is not the sibling with the preternatural sense for when something is going to break bad, or at least she is not the one for whom the experience of that anticipation is something chronic and bone-wearying. But she can read a room, and it’s not particularly hard to read a room that is actively giving itself a face. She comes to a conclusion that it’s better to stop talking to this creature, and agrees in part with the instincts that are screaming that the fight didn’t work but it’s time for the flight. But there’s else taking hold, something very old and with a very long history of controlling the narrative wherever it goes. She cannot turn in her mind to face it yet, but it seems to suggest to her what to say next.
She asks, “And why were you banished, thing?”
Thrast says, “It is the nature of the yoked to buck against the man who drives the plow.”
At this point, she feels the nausea rising. She says, “We’re not livestock.”
“And I do not preside over beasts.” The creaking becomes a brief screech as the door of the fridge tears loose. Then there is a whining as the steel of it is warped into the shape of a breastplate around the “chest” of the cloud-man, covering over that amber star. The cloud finishes burning to an ashy tone, with a consistency somewhere between skin and balloon. “My name is Thrast. Tell me about the world to which I have been exiled.”
She is exasperated enough to try to say what follows, but mostly she is increasingly aware of that sense of walls closing in on her her. She says, “You can’t just--” and then her tongue freezes in place behind her teeth.
“Do you know the first thing I discovered when I arrived, Lila Adamson?” Thrast’s “body” shows no outward sign of effort, but a force locks every joint in Lila’s body. It holds her breath until she things her lungs may burst, then releases her diaphragm to force the bad air out. As he allows a new breath into her lungs, Thrast says, “Your world has no magic of its own. Most fortuitously, Domination and Separation are not present even in the most sophisticated creature’s sovereign will.”
The something worming its way into her mind finds a comfortable place to sit. It says, So tell me, you spectacularly helpless thing, how this world is doomed.
But if Thrast thought that asserting his Domination over this young woman would render her helpless and pliable, he is immediately corrected. Though her breath comes only at his behest, and even with his grip closed around her mind, this Lila Adamson does not capitulate. Her body shakes when he does not will it, and there is a certitude of purpose within her that he finds no single wave of extraplanar magic can overcome. She does not answer his questions, or even yield those answers to be plumbed from the depths of her consciousness.
He chides himself for being so hasty. No matter that this young woman lacks the influence of the paradigms to shield her from his Domination, she has the innate magic of being and selfhood, assets she in particular has honed to a knife-edge. If he wants her knowledge he must convince her to part with it by conventional means or take her apart.
Thrast finishes crafting a suitable vocal instrument within his body. “I feel your mind quivering,” he says, no longer using the resonances of this ruined kitchen to affect speech. “If I release you, you will use the device your pocket to call for aid.”
Held motionless, Lila’s surface thoughts skitter across his fingers of Extension: her family and friends in flashes too symbolic and brief to Thrast to parse; her half-conscious mind struggling frantically to put Thrast into a category more useful to it than a terrible person.
Thrast says, “I do not wish to escalate a conflict without reason, but in the minutes since my arrival I have already seen several indications that this world is in as much peril as my own was, before the latter doomed itself and ejected me. The air is soiled. The first person I meet immediately tries to destroy me before breathing a word to me.”
Stuff from around the room continues to smear into Thrast’s being. There is a nudge 